# Milestone Project 3

## Main Code Files
1. App.py
2. App.js
3. TMDB.py
4. Wiki.py

## Design Files
1. Index.html, Login.html, Signup.html
2. Style.css, Login.css, Signup.css
3. App.css

## Technologies
The technologies used in this project are a long list. First, I needed to download flask, requests, python-dotenv, flask-login, and flask-sqalchemy which were essential for the project. Flask was used to create the web app, and requests made the TMDB and Wikipedia API calls. Python-dotenv was used to find the .env file, which holds the API key from TMDB, and load it to the TMDB file so the API calls can be accessed properly. Flask-Login was used for the login and authentication of the user. Flash-SQAlchmey is used for the creation and usuage of the database produced in heroku. The other technologies used were HTML and CSS. The HTML and CSS were used to create the web app's design. HTML set up the variables passed from app.py to the file. CSS was used to style the web app as I added a 3D pop design for the movie titles when you hover over them. The link between appy.py and the HTML and CSS files was through Jinja2. Heroku was used to make a web app that can be accessed anywhere. There were two files needed for the upload of app.py to Heroku. These were requirements.txt and Procfile. Requirements.txt was used to install the requirements for the app. Procfile was used to tell Heroku what to do with the app.

## Setup
- You will need to install flask, requests, and python-dotenv in your WSL terminal if you are using Windows or use the terminal provided in Mac. I installed them using pip3 install flask, requirements, python-dotenv, flask-login, flask-sqlachemy. Install them individually, not together, as shown as that was just an example of what command to use. 
- You will also need to acquire an API key from TMDB. This can be freely obtained by making an account then you into account settings. In the API tab, you will need to fill out all information like name, the reason for the API, and a site. I used www.example.com as a fill-in for the site location. After you have acquired the API key, you will need to add it to the .env file. Since we will not hard code the API key as anyone can access it, we will need to add it to the .env file. Use the os library to open the .env file and add the API key to the file. You variable the same you will in the heroku file. Then use the key to access the get movie API for the TMDB.py file.
- Now make the WIKI.py file. This is the file that will be used to access the Wikipedia API. You will not need an API key for this file. Setup the parameters specified in the Wikipedia API to make the wiki URL link.
- Make a database using heroku. This is the database that will be used to store the user's information in one table and will be used to store movie reviews with ratings in another table.
- Make an app.py file. This is the file that will be used to access the TMDB API and WIKI API. You will need to import both Flask and render_template from the flask. You will also need to import the TMDB and Wiki files. Setup the app route for the login page which will how you will login in to get into the webpage. Setup the app route for signup page where you must signup to have your username be added to the Account database. Setup the app route to use the two functions from the TMDB and Wiki files. Then in render_template, you initialize the TMDB and Wiki variables with the index.html. Then you render the template.
- Make an index.html, login.html, signup.html files. This is the file that will be used to create the web app's design.
- Make a style.css, login.css, signup.css files. This is the file that will be used to style the web app.
- Run npm start in the terminal. This will start the React web app. Will also add the many files which include App.js and App.css.

## Implementation Difference
The implementation between execution and planning was pretty similar for this project. The only difference was that I had to maybe have a different way of rerouting the login to signup if the account username does not exist in the database. I did not have to do this for the signup page because I was using the flask-login library to handle the login. So I setup a simple signup page that will check if the username exists in the database. If it does, then it will redirect to the login page. If it does not, then it will add the username to the database and redirect to the login page.

## Techincal Issues
1. The most technical issue was the Wifi network. The school wifi network was not working correctly. I would run the app locally, which caused a long loading screen which was not what I wanted. I used my hotspot to connect to the app with better speed. This was very troublesome as I was on campus most of the time the last two weeks. My home network was fine when it came to load up the app locally. Heroku, fortunately, was not affected by the school wifi issue; hence the app loaded better. So my thoery is that the wifi network on campus must have a issue with producing webpages which are not avabilable on the internet as they are locally produced through VS Code.
2. My login and signup were not properly connected as I kept on getting user url error. I was like what was wrong as it was working with my previous milestone. My login html link was not working as I put the wrong url in the html file in signup page. I was able to fix this by changing the url to the correct one. The redirect was a mistake in the app.py as I used flask.redirect instead of flask.redirect(url_for('login')). Those two changes fixed the issue with the user url error. 
3. The last technical problem was pylint black as my VScode was not working with it. I had to delete VScode and reinstall it to make sure the software was clean from any download issues. After that it was still gltiching out, I started to search online for solutions. I tried countless things when finally I realized I forgot to enable properly so it was causing itself to enable and disable randomly. Got it to work and the code should have no pylint or black errors.

## Overall Experience
- The hardest part of this whole project was trying to manage time and controlling my stress as all milestones were very hard to complete. If we want hardest part based on coding, I have to say this current one as trying to figure how to edit then save the stuff to database was very hard to figure out. I was unfortnately not able to complete as it was already something I worked on for three days. After that I was able to complete the project without that function meaning I willlose some points. Still I was happy with the overall project. Will definitely go back and finish it up once I can figure it out.
- The most valuable experience was never be too shy to ask questions. I have had so many professors who are like your questions are not good questions, so I shall ignore you asked thay question. Some would afterwards not even answer my questions either through verbal discussion or email as they had the bias opinion that I was not a good student who asked good questions. Here I learned that there are no bad questiosn as all my questions were answered without much delay. Another thing I relearned was I can actuall code descently. I was able to code the entire project without any errors. I am very happy with the project. I will definitely go back and finish it up once I can figure it out. Also I will be able to show my skills off to my future colleagues at work.
